Update RPCs with what API is supported and more links and auth info (#2314)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: networks/mainnet/rpcs.md

# RPCs

> [Chainlist](https://chainlist.org/?search=filecoin&testnets=true) provides a dynamically updated list of [available Filecoin - Mainnet RPCs](https://chainlist.org/?search=filecoin&testnets=true).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Chainlist](https://chainlist.org/?search=filecoin&testnets=true) provides a dynamically updated list of [available Filecoin - Mainnet RPCs](https://chainlist.org/?search=filecoin&testnets=false).
```
Matching the label, i.e. Mainnet RPCs, with the Chainlist query.

> These endpoints are limited to [read-only Filecoin JSON RPC API calls](../../reference/json-rpc/) including Filecoin Eth RPC methods and [`MPoolPush`](../../reference/json-rpc/mpool.md) for sending already signed messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These endpoints are limited to [read-only Filecoin JSON RPC API calls](../../reference/json-rpc/) including [Filecoin Eth RPC methods](https://docs.filecoin.io/reference/json-rpc/eth).  The only write operation is [`MPoolPush`](../../reference/json-rpc/mpool.md#mpoolpush) for sending already signed messages.
```

Author: @BigLep - technically the Eth RPC also has a write operation, `eth_sendRawTransaction`

Reviewer 2: Ack.  I updated the suggested change.

{% hint style="info" %} Please note that most publicly hosted endpoints **only guarantee recent state, i.e. 2000 of the latest blocks (last 16.67 hours).** To request an archival node you can contact a provider below. {% endhint %}

> <table>

Reviewer 2: A few thoughts?
1. Add headers?
2. Instead of doing "rowspans" do one row per provider?
3. Do the table in markdown in rather than html so easier to read in non-rendered mode?

Author: @BigLep - I'm just going to play favorites for now given current perf issues + historical responsiveness of the teams + how closely they work with FilOz to save devs time, once RPC stabilizes more generally we can revise.

Author: Let me move these suggestions to an issue here so we can get this merged sooner then iterate:

https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-docs/issues/2320

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      WSS
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>wss://filecoin.chainup.net/rpc/v1</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Docs
    </td>
    <td>
      <a href="https://docs.chainupcloud.com/blockchain-api/filecoin/public-apis">Chainup Cloud Docs - Filecoin</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">
      <a href="https://nownodes.io/">NOWNodes</a>
    </td>
    <td>
      HTTPS
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>https://fil.nownodes.io</code> (Free for 1 month with <a href="https://nownodes.io/pricing">signup</a>)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Docs
    </td>
    <td>
      <a href="https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/13630829/TVmFkLwy">NOWNodes - Docs</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">
      <a href="https://getblock.io/nodes/fil">GetBlock</a>
    </td>
    <td>
      HTTPS
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>https://filecoin.getblock.io</code> (Free with <a href="https://getblock.io/nodes/fil/">signup</a>)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Docs
    </td>
    <td>
      <a href="https://getblock.io/docs/getblock-explorer/get-started/">GetBlock - Docs</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Additional Notes:

> *  Glif Nodes offers a [Lotus Lite node](https://lotus.filecoin.io/lotus/install/lotus-lite/) endpoint with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Glif Nodes offers a [Lotus Lite node](https://docs.filecoin.io/nodes/lite-nodes/spin-up-a-lite-node) endpoint with the following command:
```
The docs.filecoin.io version of the lite-node installation provides a more comprehensive and up-to-date guide.
